README.adoc, before:

= OpenLDAP demo container

Quick and dirty OpenLDAP Docker container for demo purposes.

Based on https://github.com/osixia/docker-openldap[osixia/docker-openldap].

== Use case

Occasionally I have a need to have LDAP server with groups and users. That's why this image exists. No installations, no setup, just run and use.

== Usage

* Get Docker image: 
** `docker pull kazhar/openldap-demo`
* Run Docker image: 
** `docker run -d -p 389:389 -p 636:636 --name openldap-demo kazhar/openldap-demo`
* Login to server:
** Base DN: `dc=farawaygalaxy,dc=net`
** Admin user: `cn=admin,dc=farawaygalaxy,dc=net`
** Password: `passw0rd`

Or you can download/clone this repo and create and build your own image.

== Groups and users

Groups and users are specified in link:directory.ini[directory.ini]-file. When building container, LDIF file is generated. See the link:sample.ldif[sample.ldif].

One group is:

- `cn=sith,ou=groups,dc=farawaygalaxy,dc=net`

And one user in that group is :

- `uid=dvader,ou=users,dc=farawaygalaxy,dc=net`

The default password for all users is `passw0rd`. Another password can be set in link:directory.ini[directory.ini].

See the generated LDIF or use a LDAP admin tool to get more information about the user entries.

== LDAP connection and filters

Some applications ask for LDAP connection and filters. If using this OpenLDAP demo, here are the settings and filters that should work:

|===
|Setting |Value

|URL
|`ldap://server.ip:389`

|Base DN
|`dc=farawaygalaxy,dc=net`

|Bind DN
|`cn=admin,dc=farawaygalaxy,dc=net`

|Admin password
|`passw0rd`

|User filter
|`(&(uid=%v)(objectclass=inetOrgPerson))`

|Group filter
|`(&(cn=%v)(objectclass=groupOfUniqueNames))`

|User ID map
|`*:uid`

|Group ID map
|`*:cn`

|Group member ID map 
|`groupOfUniqueNames:uniqueMember`

|===

== Create your own demo image

In order to create your own OpenLDAP image with your users, you can add users and groups to link:directory.ini[directory.ini] and then build a new OpenLDAP image.

- Edit link:directory.ini[directory.ini].
- Build image:
  - `docker build -t my-openldap .`
- Start:
  - `docker run -it --rm -p 389:389 -p 636:636 --name my-openldap my-openldap`

== Scripts

link:scripts/[scripts]-directory includes some scripts that can be used to search LDAP by userid, last name, package files for offline distribution and others.

Commit message:

changed config, certs and other refactoring

README.adoc, after:

= OpenLDAP demo container

OpenLDAP Docker container for demo purposes.

Based on https://github.com/osixia/docker-openldap[osixia/docker-openldap].

== Use case

Occasionally I have a need to have LDAP server with groups and users. That's why this image exists. No installations, no setup, just run and use.

== Usage

* Get Docker image: 
** `docker pull kazhar/openldap-demo`
* Run Docker image: 
** `docker run -d -p 389:389 -p 636:636 --name openldap-demo kazhar/openldap-demo`
* Login to server:
** Base DN: `dc=farawaygalaxy,dc=net`
** Admin user: `cn=admin,dc=farawaygalaxy,dc=net`
** Password: `passw0rd`

Or you can download/clone this repo and create and build your own OpenLDAP image.

== Groups and users

Groups and users are specified in link:config.ini[config.ini]-file. When building container, LDIF file is generated. See the link:sample.ldif[sample.ldif].

One group is:

- `cn=sith,ou=groups,dc=farawaygalaxy,dc=net`

And one user in that group is :

- `uid=dvader,ou=users,dc=farawaygalaxy,dc=net`

The default password for all users is `passw0rd`. Another password can be set in link:config.ini[config.ini].

See the generated LDIF or use a LDAP admin tool to get more information about the user entries.

== LDAP connection and filters

Some applications ask for LDAP connection and filters. If using this OpenLDAP demo, here are the settings and filters that should work:

|===
|Setting |Value

|URL
|`ldap://server.ip:389`

|Base DN
|`dc=farawaygalaxy,dc=net`

|Bind DN
|`cn=admin,dc=farawaygalaxy,dc=net`

|Admin password
|`passw0rd`

|User filter
|`(&(uid=%v)(objectclass=inetOrgPerson))`

|Group filter
|`(&(cn=%v)(objectclass=groupOfUniqueNames))`

|User ID map
|`*:uid`

|Group ID map
|`*:cn`

|Group member ID map 
|`groupOfUniqueNames:uniqueMember`

|===

== Create your own demo image

In order to create your own OpenLDAP image with custom domain and users, edit link:config.ini[config.ini] and then build a new OpenLDAP image.

- Edit link:config.ini[config.ini].
- Build image:
  - `docker build -t my-openldap .`
- Start:
  - `docker run -it --rm -p 389:389 -p 636:636 --name my-openldap my-openldap`

== Scripts

link:scripts/[scripts]-directory includes some scripts that can be used to search LDAP by userid, last name, package files for offline distribution and others.
